Previously...
All I found was an empty box,
save for one jewel.
I saved it,
thinking it might be useful
Would you look out for Willie,
sere as his father?
I'm grateful to you.
Archibald and Margaret Campbell.
You're fortune tellers?
Aye. Margaret's a seer.
We are departing for the West Indies.
Sailors are a superstitious lot.
I cannae risk them
pitchin' my sister overboard,
no' when we have
a wealthy client to administer to.
Mistress Fraser,
I am duty-bound to report your husband's
crimes to the authorities in Jamaica.
Can't you look the other way?
Kindly escort the doctor to the ship.
She seems to have lost her way.
There's a box full of ancient coins
on Sllkie Island.
Aye, I can swim that.
Jamie.
Christ...
Ian!
Jamie, no!
You cannae take me away from my home!
Remain still, or I'll slit your throat.
What do you want with me?
Is that what the Bakra seeks?
Seems to be. Who is the boy?
He was holding the box.
What should we do with him?
Feed him to the pigs,
fatten them for the journey?
Please, let me go! You have the box.
Keep him. The Bakra likes young boys.
You bastard! I'll gut ye!
Be still, boy.
You have a lengthy journey ahead.
Let the Bakra know I've arrived.
She'll be well pleased.
What's your name?
I'm Henry.
Ian.
Where are we?
Jamaica, I think.
That's where Robbie was from,
and he'd not been on a ship, he said.
They took me in Barbuda.
That's not Robbie. That's Abeeku.
Robbie's gone.
Does he know where we are?
Abeeku?
He doesn't speak English.
He was here when I arrived.
There were six of us then.
Where'd those Portuguese
bastards get you?
Scotland.
It's far from here.
What do you mean there were six of you?
Abeeku and Robbie and three others
were here when I arrived.
One by one,
they were taken to see the Bakra.
They never came back.
What's a Bakra?
Sit.
I am told you are Scottish.
So am I.
Are you the Bakra?
I am.
But you can call me Geillis.
Don't worry.
It's only goat's blood.
The protein and iron
keeps my skin young.
You must be starvin'.
Plum cake and pudding.
What do you do
with the boys from the pit?
Eat first.
Then I'll answer questions.
After you.
Here.
'Tis better with sugar.
My men tell me
you were on Silkie Island...
And were holding my treasure box
when they found you.
It's only that box
once contained three sapphires.
And now there are only two.
My men don't have it.
They would never betray me.
Did you take it?
I didna have time to open the box
before yer ruffians grabbed me.
That cake is too dry.
Did ye take my jewel, lad?
I told you already. No!
What is it? What are you thinking?
That maybe my uncle took the jewel.
Why do you think that?
Because he's the only one
that kent where the treasure was.
You didn't mean
to share that with me, did you?
'Tis the tea you're drinking.
It forces you
to speak the truth no matter what.
A witch doctor makes it for me.
So...
Who's your uncle?
James Fraser of Broch Tuarach.
Is he really?
What does he want with my treasure?
He needed it...
To pay a debt.
My sailors tell me someone was shouting
for you from a hill when they took you.
Would that have been your uncle,
Jamie Fraser, by chance?
Aye.
And he'll be comin' for me.
I'm counting on it, lad.
Perhaps he'll bring
my jewel along with him.
What do you do with the boys?
I have my way with them.
Virgins have such power inside.
And after that, well...
I've no use for them, have I?
Come.
It's no' such a bad way to go.
I'm no' a virgin.
Good.
You'll know what to do, then.
Jamaica, the jewel of the Caribbean.
I had seen pictures in travel brochures,
rum drinks with little umbrellas
in them.
This was a bit more primitive.
Still, after months at sea,
the bustling port could not have been
a more welcome sight.
Our dearest hope
was that Young Ian was close
and that Captain Leonard was not.
Fergus.
Once the casks are stowed,
have Baxley take the ship out of harbour
to that wee cove we saw on the way in.
Cannae risk being moored here
if the Porpoise decides to show herself.
Aye, Milord.
Maybe the Porpoise
has already come and gone.
No.
No, Leonard wouldn't have time to refit,
find crew,
and provision his ship before departing.
We may still have a chance
to find Young Ian
and slip away before he arrives.
Perhaps we should look separately.
I'll take some of the crew
and search the town,
and you can ask about the Bruja.
I will not part, Sassenach.
I'm not losing you again.
We'll search the town together.
Begging your pardon, but have you
recently disembarked the Artemis?
And you are?
My apologies.
I'm Kenneth Maclver.
The Artemis is my employer's vessel.
James Fraser, your employer's cousin,
supercargo of the Artemis.
My wife, Claire Fraser.
We brought you French wine and brandy.
Jared's cousin?
Why, I wasn't expecting
to receive goods till summer,
though it is fortuitous timing,
I must say.
I'm expected to bring four casks of wine
to the new governor's residence.
He's having a grand ball tonight.
You'd be welcome to join us.
My wife would be delighted
to host Jared's kinsman.
Thank you for the invitation,
but I'm afraid we have
a more pressing matter at hand.
I see.
May I be of service in that matter?
Aye.
Maybe.
Show us where we might find lodging,
and I'll apprise you
of our search along the way.
A frightening tale, to be sure.
I do hope you find your nephew.
The ship that took him was the Bruja.
Do you know if she's been moored here?
I do.
I took a hogshead of vinho do pono
from her a week ago.
She departed the next day.
She's gone? Where?
Likely Portugal. Perhaps Africa.
Did she sell any slaves?
We were told that if Young Ian survived,
that they'd attempt to sell him
at the slave market here.
I do not know, madam. I'm sorry.
You'll be wanting to make inquiries
at the slave market to be certain.
Aye, we will.
You'll find fair lodgings here.
I'll send some of my men to fetch
your belongings from the Artemis.
Thank you, sir.
Be glad I bought you
that parasol, Mistress Fraser.
Ye dinnae want people to think
you aren't respectable.
Thank you, Lesley.
I really don't care if these people
think I'm respectable.
We're looking for a fair-skinned lad
who may have mistakenly been
sold here off a ship called the Bruja.
No, man. I only trade savages.
What do you take me for?
Have you heard of any fair-skinned lads
being sold here recently,
sixteen years of age?
Good day, gentlemen! Come!
I have some of the finest
Gold Coast Negroes.
I'm not here for that.
I'm looking for my nephew,
transported here on the Bruja.
May have been in port a month past.
Yes, I know the Bruja,
but she trades only in Negroes,
not as seasoned as mine,
and yet here mine sit.
You'd think the new governor
would have more sense
than to buy low-quality goods.
The governor bought the Bruja's slaves?
Yes.
Same governor
that's hosting a reception tonight?
Yes, the very same.
Those slaves may ken
what's become of Young Ian.
Yeah, we could break in
and find them at the governor's...
We dinnae need to break in.
We've been invited.
Where is Claire?
Shall we start the bidding
at £10 sterling?
You ask too much, sir.
Come now, look at this rare specimen,
ladies and gentlemen.
Young, virile, as you can see.
Look how tall.
But he can hardly walk!
No good for field work,
that's true. But...
A sound investment for breeding.
Can you give assurance of his virility?
Mrs Abernathy had one three year past,
big as a mule, and not a foal
dropped on his account.
Well...
Assurances, sir. Assurance! Well...
I'll give you a demonstration.
See for yourselves.
See how it grows.
Stop it! Get your hands off him!
Get off him, now!
Leave me alone!
Order, gentlemen. Order, please!
Get off me, you animals!
Order!
Get off me!
Are ye all right?
I'm fine. Do something,
help him. Please.
You bought him?
In my name?
Well, 'tis the simplest way
to appease the man that owned him.
I told him it was your...
Your first time at the slave market
and you were...
Overcome.
You weren't lying.
"Received of Claire Fraser,
the sum of £20 sterling,
"being in full for the purchase of a...
"A Negro slaved named Temeraire."
Aye. The bill of sale
needed a name to make it legal.
And you were the one
that wanted me to do it.
We have to free him.
Aye.
We do.
But...
Cannae release him in Kingston.
He'll just be captured again.
At least with us, he'd be cared for.
What if I tear this up?
Well, then he'd be just a companion.
Well, then you'll have
no proof he's yours.
He'd have no proof.
By law, someone else could claim him.
This is a nightmare.
We'll think of something. Promise.
We'll keep him safe...
Take him with us and set him free
when it means he truly can be.
In the meantime...
I've accepted Maclver's invitation
to the governor's reception tonight.
Why?
The slaves from the Bruja were purchased
by the governor's household.
They may ken what's become of Young Ian.
I wasna sure they'd trust me, but...
They may trust him.
We want to free you.
We don't know how yet,
or where we can safely.
But we will free you.
You buy me...
To set me free?
We've no desire to own you.
So I'm free?
Aye.
When we can find a way.
We plan to leave the island soon.
First, there's someone we must find.
My nephew.
He's been kidnapped,
taken into slavery as you were.
There are some men
that may ken where he is,
but I cannae speak with them.
They've been enslaved.
If you will come with us
to the governor's reception tonight,
speak with these men, learn what
has become of my nephew, then...
We shall be indebted to ye.
Will you help us?
Then we have a bargain.
I need to find the missing stone!
Perhaps Margaret could do the reading
with the two stones
that you already have.
Are ye daft?
Have we not combed over the prophecy
of the Brahan Seer for weeks?
Aye, we have, I simply...
The prophecy states that a seer
must hold all three sapphires at once.
'Tis the only way I'll ken
when the new Scottish king will rise.
If it's 500 years hence?
Don't concern yourself with that.
I fear the treasure, Archie.
'Tis born of blood and death.
That's enough, Margaret.
What did she say?
Margaret was just wondering...
How did you hear of the jewels?
They were handed down
from father to son for generations,
until they came into
the hands of Dougal MacKenzie.
He hid them along with
the family treasure on Silkie Island.
Never got to use it, poor man.
He died a hero
in the Battle of Culloden.
Then you truly
have no use for the treasure,
other than the stones you require?
You'll no' get a shilling
until yer sister's gifts are rendered.
Show my manservant
to the slaves' quarters
where he may be of service.
Yes, sir.
Find us. When you have news.
So, do I look like
a Scottish provocateur?
No. Ye look like a dandy.
Non, ma chérie,
he looks like a Frenchman.
The same thing.
No one will be looking
at you anyway, Milord,
not once they've had
an eyeful of Mr Willoughby.
Well, that's why you're here,
a distraction.
Now, you are a vision, mo nighean donn.
To look at you,
we could be back at Versailles.
That was a very long time ago.
Ye look as 'twas yesterday.
Mr Campbell?
Why, Mistress Malcolm, was it?
Yes, it was.
Archibald or... Well, his sister,
Margaret, was my patient in Edinburgh.
I remember you said you were
coming to the West Indies, but...
What chance that we end up
on the same island?
Well, I'm delighted to see you.
And your sister? She's here?
She is, though the wee urchin
has wandered off from me,
as is her wont, the poor darling.
Is she feeling better?
Much. She's greatly happy here.
We have the most wonderful lodgings.
Well, it was lovely to see you.
Cannae stand
to wait in line like this, but...
I'm sure the governors the right man
to speak to about Ian.
When does it end?
The slave trade?
Not for another 70 years
in the British Empire
and 100 in America.
Where did you find him?
I must know. Is he genuine?
May I...
Introduce my acquaintance,
Mr Yi Tien Cho,
late of the Celestial Kingdom of China.
Really?
From China?
What an unthinkable distance
you must have come.
Do let me welcome you
to our small island, Mr...
Mr Cho.
If all of the women
are as delightful as you,
I shall feel quite at home.
Goodness. He even speaks English.
Truly, your lost lad
will reach distant shores without harm,
and one day...
One day will be free
of the shackles that bind him.
Thank you, Mistress. Thank you.
Margaret. Stop that.
Leave us.
How dare you disobey me,
telling fortunes without my permission?
Do you remember when we were like that,
so obvious in public?
Aye.
Couldnae keep yer hands off me.
'Course, you were holding on
from the back of a horse
for most of the time,
so it couldnae be helped.
Perhaps it's because
of yer coming through the stones.
Perhaps what is?
The ghosts,
that keep coming into our lives,
drawn to us the way...
We are drawn to each other.
Your Excellency.
Jamie.
Good to see ye, John.
This is my wife, Claire.
Claire, this is Lord John.
John Grey?
YES.
But I thought that...
Aye.
I thought she'd died too,
but she returned to me.
My God.
But how?
That's a rather long story.
Come. Let's talk in private.
What joy to see you.
Are you quite all right?
Is Willie here?
She knows.
No. He's not with me.
I only arrived a month ago myself.
Isobel and Willie
will join me in the summer,
when the journeys less daunting.
How is he?
Well. He's growing very fast.
Does he still ride?
Yes, he's a marvellous equestrian.
You taught him well.
That's good.
I'm pleased.
He's a good lad. I've missed him.
And he, you.
He still remembers you.
From time to time.
'Course.
'Tis not important.
As long as he's happy.
So, how is it that you come
to be Governor of Jamaica?
By malediction, I believe.
This clammy isle is the terminus
in a number of posts
and so-called promotions.
Though I should ask the same of you.
What brings you so far from home?
Well, our nephew, Ian Murray,
has been kidnapped.
We believe he's been
brought to the island.
What can I do to help?
Could you...
Introduce us to some
of the landowners on the island,
those that keep indentured servants?
Of course, though that will be
nearly all of them.
My...
Manservant is speaking
to your slaves now.
We hope that some of them
may know where the lad is.
Whatever I can do.
Is that...
Indeed it is.
The sapphire you gave me at Ardsmuir.
I wear it to...
Remember our friendship.
Excuse me. I must return to my guests.
I shall find you shortly.
My God, it is good to see you.
Champagne?
Aye.
Thank you.
Glad you've returned.
I'd like to introduce you to a Freemason
who's acquainted
with almost everyone on the island
and may know something of your nephew.
Go on.
I'll make some inquiries of my own.
I do not want to disturb you.
Your brother...
He does not treat you as you deserve.
You are a rare soul.
And you are rarer still.
What does that mean?
Flower from heaven.
Excuse me.
I see they've put out the champagne.
Yes. Would you like some?
Or some brandy?
Brandy, thank you.
We've met before, you know.
Before the Rising.
In a barn, just outside Corrieyairack?
You defended my virtue.
Come' now. We both know
your virtue was not in jeopardy.
No, it wasn't.
Jamie told you about Willie?
Yes.
And his mother.
Your wife's sister, I believe.
He has told you a great deal.
That really is
a very beautiful sapphire.
Jamie gave that to you?
Yes.
Although, to be honest,
he didn't actually give it to me.
He surrendered it after he'd escaped.
He found it
after he was searching for you.
He believed you might have
come back to him. And...
Now you have.
Yes.
I have.
Well, it certainly is a pleasure
to finally meet the love that was his...
Every heartbeat.
I'm so sorry, I...
You'll have to excuse me.
I believe I've seen a ghost.
Of all the gin joints
in all the towns in all the world...
It is you.
I thought...
I thought you were dead.
How did...
Did I escape the pyre?
You'll recall I was with child
back at Cranesmuir.
Of course.
Well...
'Twas the wee ratling
that saved my life.
They had to wait for the bairn to come
before they could
carry out the sentence.
He was an innocent, ye see.
They kept you in the thieves' hole
that entire time?
Three months.
When my pains began...
They took me out of the hole,
and the babe was born in my own bedroom,
in the fiscal's house.
They let me hold him.
And he was as warm
as his father's balls.
And of course,
Dougal came to fetch him,
for fear someone
would find out it was his.
Why are men such fools?
Ye can lead them anywhere
by the cock for a while.
Give them a bairn'
and you have them by the balls again.
But it's all ye are to them,
whether they're coming in or going out,
a cunt.
Well, here's to it, I say.
Most powerful thing in the world.
Dougal helped you escape?
I got him to bribe the locksman
and ensure that the hooded figure
dragged to the pyre next mornin'
wouldn't be that of Geillis Duncan.
Then who was it?
Auld Grannie Joan MacClellan
had died three days before.
A few rocks in the coffin,
lid nailed down tight,
and Bob's your uncle.
She blazed something beautiful too.
You were there?
Aye.
I wouldna have missed it.
No one gets to witness
their own funeral,
let alone their own execution.
Then Dougal found a home for the bairn.
Got me away.
I hid out for a while.
So, then...
Why did you come here?
To Jamaica?
After Culloden,
when I found out about Dougal's death,
I married a plantation owner
drownin' in sugar money.
Poor sop died years ago.
Very unhealthy atmosphere it is
for Englishmen in the tropics.
Any little thing will carry them off.
I'm Mistress Abernathy now,
of Rose Hall.
So I was right about you.
Yes, you were.
And you saved my life.
I never got to thank you.
I did wonder whether our paths
would cross again after Cranesmuir.
Why are you in Jamaica?
We're looking for Jamie's nephew.
He's been kidnapped.
We think he might have
been sold into slavery
somewhere here on the island.
That's terrible.
How can I help?
Well, you know a lot of people here.
You could ask around.
Of course.
What are friends for?
Your necklace. It's beautiful.
Is that...
Black coral. From Jamie.
Do let's go say hello
to your wee fox cub.
Perhaps he'll have a bauble
for me as well.
Jamie.
You remember Geillis?
How could he forget?
Aye.
Have you met the governor?
Aye, just this evening.
It's a wonderful soiree,
Your Excellency. I wish ye welcome.
Wherever did you get
that lovely gemstone?
This has become quite the conversation
piece tonight, hasn't it?
I should wear it more often.
Well, it was found on an island
off the coast of Scotland
many years ago,
and given to me by a friend.
Given to you by a prisoner.
Well, I tend to omit that detail.
Fascinating.
If you'll excuse me, Governor.
We'll speak again soon, I promise.
She's a touch strange, isn't she?
You have no idea.
I need your sister
to do readings for the crowd.
Now?
Will that be a problem?
No, but I didna think her talents
were required this evening.
Well, they are now.
Might I ask a small fee
from those that come?
Ye do whatever ye must.
I care only for one reading.
The sun rises on a snake and true,
slithering in close to you.
A wise rabbit will guard its den,
but a fool...
Sorry, what's happening?
They're telling fortunes.
Your neighbour to the east is a thief.
Guard against him.
That's Margaret.
Yer patient?
YES.
Archibald said they were coming here
in the service of a rich patron.
It must be Geillis.
Governor. How would you like
to have your fortune told?
I daresay I'm fortunate enough.
Nonsense.
Indeed it is.
Forgive me, but I have guests
to whom I must attend.
What do you say, friends?
Shouldn't he oblige us?
If I must.
I dinna want to do this.
So you'll do your part
to entertain the heathen slaves
for no payment in return,
but not for our patron?
Has she no' been kind
and munificent to us here?
Now, when she brings the governor over,
add his stone to these
and deliver the prophecy.
I want to help people.
This will bring death. I can feel it.
Can you now? Ye'll do it anyway,
or I'll get out the stick.
Here she comes.
Now, she'll need something personal
of yours to hold, Your Excellency.
When twice 1,200 moons have coursed,
'tween man's attack and a woman's curse,
and when the issue is cut down,
then will a Scotsman wear a crown.
A Scotsman in a crown?
Well, what a peculiar pastime.
What do the words mean?
"Twice 1,200 moons"?
I know that's 200 years.
Aye, 200 years must pass
between man's attack and woman's curse.
A woman's curse is childbirth,
of course,
and man's attack is, well,
saving your presence,
planting one's seed.
Don't worry about my presence.
No, of course not.
The issue that must be cut down...
That's the child. Of course.
"Issue" means "progeny."
So, then,
a new king will rise in Scotland
upon the death of a child
that is 200 years old
on the day of its birth.
A 200-year-old baby?
Aye.
Do ye think I'm an idiot?
I brought ye here to tell me
when it will happen,
and instead, ye give me
the bloody Case of Benjamin Button.
It's all right.
Just because it's cryptic
doesn't mean we can't solve it, aye?
Quite right, madam.
I'm glad you see it that way.
It takes time.
Time, I have.
Fetch yer sister. We're leaving.
Pinch me.
Here?
Must be a dream, being here with you,
in this beautiful place.
You, my husband.
And I, your wife.
You're not dreaming.
But can I still pinch you?
Not here.
That's Captain Leonard.
We must hurry.
Milord. Captain Leonard
is on the premises.
Go!
Temeraire.
Have our carriages ready,
and find Willoughby.
We'll meet you at the inn.
What did you learn? Did you find them?
Escaped slaves in Bruja see white boy.
Tall, yellow hair,
speaks strange. Like you.
Aye. That's him. Where is he now?
Boy stay on ship.
Well, do they know
where the ship took him?
Mistress Abernathy. Rose Hall.
That's Geillis' place.
She lied to me.
I told you she had a wicked soul.
Keep bargain?
Aye, aye.
When we're in a place that'll have ye.
Free men here. In Jamaica.
Escaped slave live in mountains,
near Rose Hall.
Show us. We'll take ye there.
Go.
Here. Stop.
I see the mark.
This is the path.
I go this way.
Be safe.
God go with ye.
Now, we must get to Rose Hall.
And when we get there,
I'll distract Geillis.
And I'll search the grounds
for Young Ian.
Jamie!
Claire...
The portraits of the children.
For safekeeping.
No!
Mistress Fraser.
I see you found your husband.
James Fraser,
also known as Alexander Malcolm,
you are charged with the wilful murder
of John Barton, Exciseman,
and high treason
for the printing of seditious libel.
I apprehend you in the name
of His Majesty King George.
After everything I did
for you and your men!
You bloody bastard.
I am the only reason
any of you survived.
Madam.
Come on.
Go.
Find Young Ian!